---
id: 329
title: "2015"
date: 2015-10-31T23:35:59-07:00
author: admin
layout: revision
guid: http://www.carotidbattery.com/2015/10/317-revision-v1/
permalink: /2015/10/317-revision-v1/
---
<span style="font-weight: 400;">2015.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">It’s hard to know where to begin to summarize what a year like 2015 has been up until now.  Wonderful and awful&#8230;I guess I’ll start there.  I have a little boy&#8230;a son named Kian, and we honestly didn’t know if that was going to happen for us.  His name means God is Gracious, and oh how He is! Kian iss full of life and such a handful and we love him like nothing else on this planet.  He arrived in April and we’ve been trying to figure out what we’re doing ever since.  I suppose that will continue for the next 18+ years.  He was a little monkey for Halloween and the cuteness was more than we could handle.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">2015 started off with some low points.  I found out I had thyroid cancer at the beginning of the year and had my thyroid removed in February.  That threw us a bit, simply because of the presence of the “C” word, but in the long run it ended up proving to be one of the more straight-forward challenges of the year.  Successful thyroid removal surgery&#8230;lifelong medication to replace the missing hormones&#8230;all good.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">Finding the thyroid cancer was actually just lucky, if you believe in that sort of thing.  I don’t.  I’m thankful it was found and dealt with, but I don’t think it was luck.  Regardless, the doctors were on a different search when they stumbled upon the cancer.  That search actually started back in the Fall of 2012, when I first went to the doctor with some digestive, bloating issues.  I went in for labs and testing periodically for the next year and then, when faced with a choice of getting scoped from both ends, I chose the easy way out and decided to make some dietary choices of my own to see what the results might be.  In October of 2013 I cut out sugar, carbs, and anything that might metabolize into sugar for a month&#8230;lost 20lbs, felt a lot better, and called it a year.  It was mostly a scope-avoidance tactic, but as it seemed to work it I chose to go with it.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">In late 2014 I started experiencing some odd joint pain in my shoulders, and then my ankles.  Then at Christmastime my right eye went very blood shot&#8230;then very light sensitive&#8230;and that’s how I started 2015.  Doctor appointment begat doctor appointment, lab visit, follow-on appointment, prescription, etc.  A primary doctor who couldn’t think of other options decided to have a ultrasound done of my thyroid, which showed a nodule.  A biopsy showed cancer, and surgery was next.  Unfortunately, the cancer had nothing to do with the symptoms and I was back to the drawing board.  Rheumatology was involved and an initial, very tentative, diagnosis came back as an obscure autoimmune disease called Behcet’s, which typically only affects folks from the Middle East.  </span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">The joint pain worsened and I found myself nearly unable to carry my son down the hall to change his diapers in the middle of the night.  At the beginning of August, 2015, I developed a dry cough and some strange bumps on my elbows and thumbs.  Then, one morning, I scratched one of my feet and noticed some numbness in my toes.  A week later I found myself having trouble lifting my foot and walking had become cumbersome.  After a trip to the doctor and some neurological tests I was left with no more information, but a recommendation to go to the ER if it got any worse.  Later that week, as I was driving home from work, I found myself having a difficult time keeping my foot off of the pedals and decided that probably fit the definition of “worse” and I should probably head in.  The next morning I went to the ER and, after about 5 hours in the waiting room and another hour in an overflow ER recliner, I had some labs done and a chest x-ray.  A little while later they came over to my recliner and told me that my chest x-ray didn’t look good and that they needed to admit me.  The rheumatologist later told me that the x-ray looked awful.  Pretty sure that’s not a medical term, but I got the point.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">A 6-day hospital visit, which included </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">4 X-Rays, 4 </span><span style="font-weight: 400;">biopsies</span><span style="font-weight: 400;">, 2 ultrasounds, 2 MRIs, a CT scan and countless labs ensued and, when all was finished, they sent me home to wait for results.  I got a call from the kidney doctor shortly thereafter and was told that the results pointed fairly definitively to something called Wegener’s disease&#8230;an autoimmune disease that’s a form of vasculitis and causes large amounts of inflammation throughout the body, the most concerning being in the kidneys.  Thankfully, the damage done to my kidneys appears to be minimal and functionally they are still in pretty good shape.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">I’ve been on prednisone since the beginning of the year and when I was admitted to the hospital they maxed that out&#8230;I’ve been on that dose up until now and the joint pain and eye issues are gone, which has been amazing.  They also prescribed a month-long infusion treatment of a drug called Rituxan which was supposed to halt and reverse the effects of the disease.  I finished that up mid-October, which brings me to now…</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">After about 60-70 trips to the doctor, lab, pharmacy, etc, this year I’m pretty done with medical stuff.  I have so much respect for folks who deal with long-term illness.  My “stuff” has been exhausting and I can’t imagine dealing with this kind of thing for years&#8230;I hopeful that I won’t have to.  I’m still waiting to hear if the treatments were effective or not, and I’m still waiting for the long-term plans to come into focus, but I do know that I feel so much better than I did in late August.  I couldn’t sleep&#8230;I was in pain all day long&#8230;I didn’t feel like myself, and I couldn’t help my wife take care of our new little son.  It was awful.  I can say that I’ve never prayed the way I did then&#8230;never cried out in the middle of the night like that.  I felt closer and more authentic with God than I ever have, and I am thankful for the symptoms that led me there, but it was awful.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">My biggest complaints today are a foot that flops a bit when I walk, and the side effects of the prednisone.  My face, stomach, upper back and knees are all bloated.  My hands shake and I have horrible&#8230;I mean HORRIBLE&#8230;body odor.  I’m not the most patient of people and I have developed a raging sweet tooth.  Seriously&#8230;don’t bring your Halloween candy around me.  It will disappear.  God willing, they will start bringing me off of prednisone soon and onto a new medication that is not a steroid.  Because of my cancer history the medicine options are a bit more limited but he doctors seem fairly confident that they will be able to address the symptoms to the point of remission long-term.</span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">More than that&#8230;God willing, I will be healed and free of all of this.  And that’s really I guess why I’m sharing things at this point.  I’ve gone back and forth on how and what to let people know, simply because I’m still going through it all and have been unsure what “it” actually is.  It feels strange to just broadcast news like this, but I wholeheartedly believe that the prayers of the righteous are powerful and effective (James 5:16) and so I’m asking that you would lift this to God as it comes to mind.  I would love to see His powerful, healing hand in my life and know that He is able to heal.  I would love to share that news with you all.  More than that, though, my hope is that God would continue to draw me nearer to Himself in this and that I learn more about who He is and how He loves through this small amount of hardship.  </span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">I read this C.S. Lewis quote from Mere Christianity today and it seems apt:  “You must ask for God&#8217;s help. Even when you have done so, it may seem to you for a long time that no help, or less help than you need, is being given. Never mind. After each failure, ask forgiveness, pick yourself up, and try again. Very often what God first helps us towards is not the virtue itself but just this power of always trying again.”  </span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">If 2015 is about God helping me towards virtues, relationship with Him and authenticity on a new level then, amen&#8230;I don’t enjoy it but&#8230;amen.  He is good and I am thankful for this year, as wonderful and awful as it has been.</span>