---
id: 132
title: creativity, pt.2
date: 2010-08-31T21:43:11-07:00
author: brian
layout: revision
guid: http://www.carotidbattery.com/?p=132
permalink: /2010/08/130-revision-2/
---
I&#8217;ve been thinking through this whole, you know, creativity thing&#8230;a lot of thoughts.  I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;m going to try to keep this coherent&#8230;it&#8217;s just going to be a lot of verbal spitting.  I think that God makes some people creative, and others more creative.  I think the only ones of us who are not creative are those that don&#8217;t care to be.  I think that if/when you are the creative type you exude creativity on some level&#8230;you don&#8217;t have the option.  It comes out of you, even when you try to repress it in the mundane.  When a creative person finds themselves unable to be creative, for whatever internal or external reason, you will see them become frustrated, angry, depressed.  So I think there&#8217;s maybe three kinds of people, now that I think of it&#8230;those that aren&#8217;t really creative and don&#8217;t really care, those that are creative and struggle with expression, and those that are creative and express, whether they want to or not, whether they can make a living through expression or not, whether people ask them to or not, whether anyone ever cares or not.  The first group is ignorant to the blessing and the curse&#8230;and sometimes ignorance is truly bliss.  (I&#8217;m not using the word ignorant in a derogatory way here.)  The third group is what it is and doesn&#8217;t try to be anything but what it is.  There is hardship, certainly, but the mandate to express overpowers the roadblocks.  I believe I am in the second group, and I think this group has it the hardest.  This isn&#8217;t a pity party&#8230;I&#8217;m trying to think through this.  I am a creative person, but I think that sometimes my creativity is old news, is plain&#8230;I am viewing it as someone else might, through the eyes of a potential consumer of my creativity.  By consumer, I mean viewer, listener, beholder and/or purchaser.  I&#8217;m not creating because I must (as the third group does) but because I have the capability, enjoy doing so, and very much want to be known, even if just by myself, as a creative person.  Those in the third group are oftentimes conscious of the consumer, but would go on creating regardless of the consumer&#8217;s interest.  Those in the second group _always_ have the consumer in mind, even when they very much wish to be free of the consumer&#8217;s perceived presence.  If I make music, will others like it?  Will it be something that someone else might be interested in?  If I make visual art the same questions pop into my head.  Sometimes I wish I could either not care if I was creative or not be able to control the urge.  The hindered, self-conscious, overly critical middle ground is a difficult place to call home.  So, I guess the big question is this&#8230;as I believe one who is creative can never ditch their creativity, can someone in the second group graduate into group one?  I don&#8217;t think writing the hit song, &#8220;making it&#8221;, and not having to work a traditional job necessarily means graduation in this case.  I mean can a person lose the self in the process and become overwhelmed by the art they have been called to produce?